{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue191;\red191\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 //This file is part of The BBCut Library. Copyright (C) 2001  Nick M.Collins distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License full notice in file BBCutLibrary.help\

\fs24 \

\fs34 How to get started:\

\fs24 \
You must transfer some files from the distribution folder and put them within folders in\
the SC Server program folder.\
\
The classes folder (or a symbolic link to it) must be placed within the SCClassLibrary folder. \
\
The help files folder should be placed within the Help folder. \
\
You must recompile the library by pressing apple+k (option also under Lang menu). \
\
Finally, in order to run some of the examples, take two breakbeat samples, the first\
8 beats and the second 4 beats long and put them in the Sounds folder in SuperCollider. \
The two samples should have filenames "break" and "break2". You'll see them referenced in \
examples as "break", "break2". If you don't follow this step, the examples won't \
run unless you substitute a valid location of a soundfile on disk.  A few examples also use\
the default "a11wlk01.wav" sample that comes with SC3. \
\
\

\fs36 First steps:
\fs24 \
\
Try running examples! There are examples at the bottom of every help file, so why not begin\
by highlighting some of the following and pressing CMD+SHIFT+? \
\
[\cf2 BBCutProc11\cf0 ]	\cf3 //<- highlight the name in the parentheses by double clicking the text or \cf0 \
			\cf3 //double click next to the bracket, then press cmd+?   \cf0 \
\
[\cf2 WarpCutProc1\cf0 ]\
\
Try the sample pieces in the help folder under 'examples'.\
\
\

\fs32 BBCut and other libraries: \

\fs24 \
This extension library for SC3 doesn't overwrite any common classes, so I hope you'll have no problems installing it alongside other third party libraries. There might be a few problems with name clashes of classes, but I have avoided obvious names like Cut, Cutter etc. \
\
I only use classes that come as standard with the SC distribution. \
}