{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue191;\red96\green96\blue96;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs18 \cf0 This file is part of The BBCut Library. Copyright (C) 2001  Nick M.Collins distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License full notice in file BBCutLibrary.help\

\f1\b\fs30 \
StatBalProc
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\

\f1\b Superclass: ChooseCutProc
\f0\b0 \
\
Extension of ChooseCutProc using Charles Ames' method of statistical feedback to control selection of  \
cut size and repeat states. The essential auxilliary class is StatBalStream. The theoretical basis of the use of \
statistical feedback is control over a continuum from Lehmer style random number generation \
to deterministic behaviour via the heterogeneity parameter. The application to automatic cutting is to \
promote different types of short term diversity with long term proportions preserved for \
parameter choices. Note that statistics are slightly perverted by phrases, which may require that only a \
smaller cutsize or number of repeats fits in the available space. Set phraselength very large to avoid that.\
\
It is fair to say that the effect can remain unnoticeable, depending on choices of heterogeneity. Low \
heterogeneity statistical feedback restricts the choice of potential cut sequences, avoiding strange\
dispersions of states (that is, rare states possibly cropping up many times in a row). \
\

\f1\b \ul Class Methods
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
*
\f1\b new(cutsbs, repeatsbs, phraselength, rollchance, rollallowed, bpsd)
\f0\b0    \
Create a ChooseCutProc object with the given parameters.\
\

\f1\b cutsbs
\f0\b0  - A StatBalStream object that returns a cut size from the next method.\

\f1\b repeatsbs 
\f0\b0 - A StatBalStream object that returns the number of repeats from the next method.\

\f1\b phraselength 
\f0\b0 - Next length of phrase in beats.\

\f1\b rollchance
\f0\b0  - A probability of a roll near the end of a phrase.\

\f1\b rollallowed
\f0\b0  - number of beats within sight of the end of the current phrase within which a roll is permissible.\

\f1\b bpsd
\f0\b0  - beats per sub division. Sets a primitive cut size resolution for choose offset messages. \
\

\f1\b \ul Instance Methods
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\

\f1\b initStatBalProc 
\f0\b0 Called internally after a new.\
\

\f1\b cutsizedefault
\f0\b0 , 
\f1\b repeatfuncdefault
\f0\b0  are overridden from ChooseCutProc.\
\
Examples- Substitute your own break sample to hear this properly\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs18 \cf0 (	\cf2 //defaults\cf0 \
\cf3 var\cf0  sf;\
sf= \cf3 SF3\cf0 (\cf4 "break"\cf0 ,8);\
\
\cf3 BBCut\cf0 (\cf3 BBCutSynthSF\cf0 (sf),\cf3 StatBalProc\cf0 .new).tempo_(2.4).go;\
)
\fs24 \
\
\

\fs18 (	\cf2 //defaults\cf0 \
\cf3 var\cf0  sf;\
sf= \cf3 SF3\cf0 (\cf4 "break"\cf0 ,8);\
\
\cf3 BBCut\cf0 (\cf3 BBCutSynthSF\cf0 (sf),\cf3 StatBalProc\cf0 .new(\
\
\cf3 StatBalStream\cf0 .new([0.5,1.5],[0.3,0.7],0.02),	\cf2 //almost a deterministic swap in proportions 3:7\
\cf3 StatBalStream\cf0 .new([1,2],[0.6,0.4],1.0),		\cf2 //some random dispersion in the short term (long term works out at 3:2)\
\cf0 8000.0	\cf2 //don't constrain the phrase for 2000 4/4 bars, ie 13 minutes at this tempo\
\cf0 		\cf2 //note that it makes rolls very very rare!\
\cf0 \
)).tempo_(2.4).go;\
)
\fs24 \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs18 \cf0 (	\cf2 //comparison with ChooseCutProc and Lehmer choices\cf0 \
\cf3 var\cf0  sf;\
sf= \cf3 SF3\cf0 (\cf4 "break"\cf0 ,8);\
\
\cf3 BBCut\cf0 (\cf3 BBCutSynthSF\cf0 (sf),\cf3 \
ChooseCutProc\cf0 .new(\{[0.5,1.5].wchoose([0.3,0.7])\},\{[1,2].wchoose([0.6,0.4])\},\cf3 nil\cf0 ,8000.0)\
).tempo_(2.4).go;\
)
\fs24 \
\

\fs18 \
////////////\
For additional data on the algorithm see\
Nick Collins, "further automatic BreakBeat cutting methods",\
Proceedings of Generative Art 2001\
reproduced at http://www.axp.mdx.ac.uk/~nicholas15/\
////////////\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
}