{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue191;\red0\green115\blue0;\red191\green0\blue0;
\red96\green96\blue96;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 [\cf2 ICMC03\cf0 ]  \'b0 www.klippav.org\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 'A Protocol for Audiovisual Cutting'\cf0 \
Nick Collins and Fredrik Olofsson\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 [from a talk given at ICMC2003 in Singapore. Most of the video demoes from the talk are available from klippav.org]
\fs42 \

\fs36 \
VJing\
\
VJ culture has been on the rise since a priest first set up \
a color organ...\
\
multimedia happenings since futurists/Oskar Fischinger in the 20s \
\
modern club culture suffused with visuals\
\
Visualisers like G-Force, WhiteCap, iTunes use audio band tracking\
\
Now...the audiovisual laptop team for live generative AV work...\
\
Dedicated software like Arkaos VJ, Isadora, Aestesis\
\
MAX/MSP + jitter/nato+0.55, PD+GEM, jMax + DIPS and many more\
\
Allow general message passing between audio and visual applications\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
VJs usually second best to audio artists in the club hierarchy- opposite stance to film! \
\
How to treat this outside the language of film theory? Fischinger's 'visual music' , Cook's 'music film'.\
\
Are more abstract mappings (Nicholas Cook's complementation and contest\
in Analysing Musical Multimedia) to be judged better than direct 1-1 relationship (conformance)?\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
 \
Still, 1-1 correlations have a dramatic immediacy and a technical challenge:\
\
scratch video in the 80s\
\
90s update with the VJamm software- \
Coldcut- Timber from Let Us Play (Ninja Tune, 1997) \
\
MsPinky's Interdimensional Wrecked System- Cycling74's sync scratching tool to connect a laptop and turntable\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
BBCut is a library of routines for automated audio cutting in SuperCollider (presented at ICMC2002). It provides algorithmic cutters working within a limited rhythmic model of cutting. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs18 \cf0 (	\cf4 //SQPusher simulation\
\cf2 var\cf0  sf;\
\
sf=\cf2 SF3.array\cf0 ([\cf5 ":Sounds:bogdan:dillbeat1"\cf0 ],[8]);\
\
\cf2 BBCut\cf0 (\cf2 BBCutSynthSF\cf0 (sf.at(0),0.3, \cf2 SQPushFXAmp\cf0 .new(0.15),0.0,\cf2 SQPushFXPitch\cf0 .new(0.96,pbchance:0.8)),\cf2 SQPusher1\cf0 (0.4, 3, 0.4)).tempo_(3.4).ar;\
)
\fs36 \
\
\
Rather than have a VJ do audio tracking of a bbcutter, why not pass the state information over to the VJ application? \
\

\fs18 (	\cf4 //first protocol information demonstration\
\cf2 var\cf0  sf;\
\
sf=\cf2 SF3.array\cf0 ([\cf5 ":Sounds:bogdan:dillbeat1"\cf0 ],[8]);\
\
\cf2 BBCut\cf0 ([\cf2 BBCutSynthSF\cf0 (sf.at(0),0.3, \cf2 SQPushFXAmp\cf0 .new,0.0,\cf2 SQPushFXPitch\cf0 .new(0.96,pbchance:0.8))\
,BBCSPost.new\
],\cf2 SQPusher1\cf0 (0.4, 3, 0.4)).tempo_(3.4).ar;\
)
\fs36 \
\
\

\fs18 (	\cf4 //second demo\
\cf2 var\cf0  sf;\
\
sf=\cf2 SF3.array\cf0 ([\cf5 ":Sounds:bogdan:dillbeat1"\cf0 ],[8]);\
\
\cf2 BBCut\cf0 ([\cf2 BBCutSynthSF\cf0 (sf.at(0),0.3, \cf2 SQPushFXAmp\cf0 .new,0.0,\cf2 SQPushFXPitch\cf0 .new(0.965,pbchance:0.8))\
,BBCSPost.new\
],\cf2 WarpCutProc1\cf0 (1.0,nil,[0.7,0.3,0.5])).tempo_(3.4).ar;\
)
\fs36 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Hoped for benefits- \
\
All the audio cutting routines become available for video processing\
\
The visual correlation can help to make sense of the rapid cuts, and \
demonstrates their live generation. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Implementation with Swedish VJ Fredrik Olofsson, using MAX/MSP + jitter and nato.0+55 for the video rendering and SuperCollider with bbcut for the audio. \
\
\
Message passing using MIDI on OS 9, updating to OSC for OS X.\
Messages follow the bbcut rendering information during performance.\
\
\
A developing practical implementation supports both stream (live video feed) and fixed buffer (frames capture) cutting.\
\
 \
 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Without Fredrik here it is unfortunately not possible to show you the work live, but we are gigging with this system in clubs around Europe. \
\
\

\fs18 [Fredrik's MAX patch screenshot]\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs36 \cf0 \
\
I've brought some live rendered demoes. I promise that they are live generative work and there is no cheating. You may see a couple of breakups to confirm this. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The rendering possibilities that excite us are- \
\
cutting up dancers as they dance to the music\
\
cutting improvising musicians as audio and video events\
\
The protocol can be passed to any visualiser- no need for video, could be a generative graphics system. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
 \
 \
Much more work to be done- a developing arms war is going on in London. \
\
SuperCollider vs Director, MAX/MSP with a dedicted camerawoman...\
\
I have a pure C++ OpenGL implementation on an annoyingly immobile desktop PC. \
\
\
Problems to overcome-\
 \
rhythmic rate vs frame rate. Often cutter info must be filtered or run at half speed to the main tempo to get a good match.\
\
Passing Event Detection information. \
\
 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}