{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs18 \cf2 //This file is part of The BBCut Library. Copyright (C) 2001  Nick M.Collins distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License full notice in file BBCutLibrary.help\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs44 \cf0 \
OnsetDetectorUI
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\
This onset detection GUI is an interface to a number of alternative methods for finding onsets in signals. All are realtime methods. A flag allows you to choose whether to hear the running onset detection or not. Presets can be save/loaded and new files brought in as desired. Use post to give the list of discovered onsets. \
\
To get the GUI run this line:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs18 \cf0 OnsetDetectorUI.new\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
The GUI is I hope relatively self-explanatory, but a few notes on the keyboard shortcuts will assist you:\
\
keys a-z play the first 26 segments as an auditioning shortcut.\
\
Otherwise, in the onset markers window, pressing the space bar plays the current segment from the selected onset.  \
\
Pressing space bar in the signal view will create a new onset marker at the selection start point.\
\
Delete after selecting a marker will remove it. \
\
The code in the classes \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs18 \cf0 \
OnsetDetector.dumpClassSubtree\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
Is probably worth a look for adapting to your own realtime onset detectors which will run without GUI, or see PV_HainsworthFoote and PV_JensenAndersen help files. \
  }